your host for motorWeek John Davis hello
and welcome again to motorWeek we're
glad to have you with us in the world of
high-performance cars names like Mustang
Corvette and Viper are true legends
timeless legends that continue to evolve
increasing their performance
capabilities as buyers demand more and
more power and grip well the latest and
most potent versions of these icons are
all right here the ford mustang cobra
are the chevrolet corvette zo6 and the
dodge viper ACR each easily does justice
to its famous name but when they go
head-to-head on the racetrack which
legend will cross the finish line first
to answer that question which subjected
this trio
days of high-speed torture testing at
Savannah Georgia is flat and fast
roebling road raceland and despite our
best efforts in making the tires squeal
engine
great try not one of these proud
warriors was willing to admit defeat of
the three the ford svt mustang cobra r
is the most purpose-built for serious
track work and it certainly looks the
part too deep front fascia and power
dome hood side exhaust and airplane size
rear wing are not so subtle reminders of
this cobras bike inside board special
vehicle team has installed form hugging
recaro sport buckets and not much else
no radio no rear seat no air
conditioning no sissy stuff here what
lies under the hood is not for softies
either SBT heavily modified ford's all
aluminum modular 5.4 liter v8 tweaking
it up in volume to the tune of 385
horsepower and 385 pound-feet of torque
it feeds the rear wheels through a
sturdy tremec 6-speed manual gearbox by
way of a vm ripper shifter on a 45
degree day
ripped at the drag strip reduced zero to
60 runs of 5.4 seconds further down the
track the quarter mile past in thirteen
forty-four seconds and 116 miles per
hour out on the road course though the
coverture nothing but super low left
time handling is neutral with moderate
body roll and super crisp earring turn
in the now fully independent rear
suspension keeps the tail planted no
matter what finally a Mustang that
doesn't skip from bump to bump righto
responses quick and the power curve
matched up nicely to this track he
always had plenty of Rebs to work with
and no car we've tested has been easier
to steer with the throttle steering one
into your garage won't be as easy though
despite its 55 thousand dollar price all
300 available this year are spoken for
our advice get in line now for the next
are from previous experience with the
Dodge Viper ACR we're all familiar with
the engine specs an earth-shaking 500
pound feet of torque and 460 horsepower
from its eight liter v10 what is not
familiar though is this Vipers new for
2001 a key lock brakes and may we just
say it's about time the brakes performed
flawlessly throughout our test something
we've never been able to say about a
Viper before as
4.3 seconds quarter-mile time was the
bestest of our butts also a 12 point 4
seconds and 120 miles per hour blowing
clanking and growling all the way on the
road course though the Viper slipped
behind the others handling was quite
unpredictable as the limits of occasion
also steering became very light and
vague those are traits we didn't notice
in our previous ACR test and it makes a
car with this kind of power a real
handful
but we can't say enough about the Vipers
steep torque curve and phenomenal
overall performance it may be rough
around the edges and in corners of being
on the edge can be quite a thrill and
there is nothing dull about the ACR
eighty-six thousand dollar base price
you want those slick black stripes on
the hood entail that's another three
grand we didn't say this test was about
affordability did way but almost
affordable is what makes the Chevrolet
Corvette zo6 so impressive the zo6
quickly garnered the most praise from
our crew to starting with the all-new
ls6 engine it matches the cobra r an
output delivering 385 horsepower and 385
pound-feet of torque but it does so in a
freer revving instantly responsive
fashion and pure speed the zo6 came in
second in our acceleration test a 4.8
seconds 0 to 60 dash quarter-mile in 13
seconds flat 116 miles per hour but in
the twisties the vet proved to be first
in athletics hosting lap times is second
quicker than the Mustang and a full 2
seconds ahead of the Viper steering
response is instantaneous I decide
transitions are quick and precise and
power on demand is always just a flick
of the right foot away thanks to its
active handling stability system a
feature not offered on the others
anybody can safely drive this car fast
and a good driver can take it to the
limit and beyond with complete
confidence add in a base price of 48
thousand five hundred dollars the lowest
of the bunch and the Chevrolet Corvette
zo6 quickly shakes up to be the
performance car bargain of its class end
of the world
when the checkered flag fell on this
motorWeek test session the chevy
corvette zo6 was proclaimed the winner
with both the ford mustang cobra r and
the dodge viper ACR following closely in
its tire tracks indeed all three of
these treats are rare experience in a
hoop to sling around a racetrack they
each through more than justice to their
famous high performance name and proved
to us laughs after lap why everyone is a
true legend